Codexes2Gemini/resources/submission punch list.md, before:


# DUE DATE: 2024-08-11
working days remaining: **22**

- remove all folders not on critical path
- put each folder in its own release branch
- add prompt key/value pair for Twin Creation
- add prompt key/value pair for Outline Creation
- add add prompt key/value pair for Codex Creation
- add prompt k/v pair for Reader response
- add prompt k/v pair for Codex2MarkdownCodex
- add prompt k/v pair for MarkdownCodex2StyledCodex
- add prompt k/v pair for c/e
- add prompt k/v pair for proofing
- add Parts of the Book class
- add Parts of the Book prompt key/value pairs
- add CSV2Template for 2025 books
- add key/value pairs to user_prompts and system_prompts
  - twin-creating user prompt
- - unit tests for each class
- documentation
  - docstrings
- create video assets
- complete README # working
- ~~test upload to TestPyPi~~
- upload to PyPi
- test pip install
- have friends test pip install
- complete video
- Submit to Google
- social media share of PyPi repo
  - Matt Schumer
  - Logan K.
  - DeepMind folks
  - Book people

==== WATERLINE ====
  - readthedocs

Commit message:

Update submission punch list
The submission punch list file has been updated to mark the task "move all folders not on critical path" as queued. New tasks such as "make nested import structure of Codex2Gemini optimally portable" and "stash queued" have also been added.

Codexes2Gemini/resources/submission punch list.md, after:


# DUE DATE: 2024-08-11
working days remaining: **22**

- ~~move all folders not on critical path => queued~~
- add prompt key/value pair for Twin Creation
- add prompt key/value pair for Outline Creation
- add add prompt key/value pair for Codex Creation
- add prompt k/v pair for Reader response
- add prompt k/v pair for Codex2MarkdownCodex
- add prompt k/v pair for MarkdownCodex2StyledCodex
- add prompt k/v pair for c/e
- add prompt k/v pair for proofing
- add Parts of the Book class
- add Parts of the Book prompt key/value pairs
- add CSV2Template for 2025 books
- add key/value pairs to user_prompts and system_prompts
  - twin-creating user prompt
- - unit tests for each class
- documentation
  - docstrings
- create video assets
- complete README # working
- ~~test upload to TestPyPi~~
- make nested import structure of Codex2Gemini optimally portable
- stash queued
- 
- upload to PyPi
- test pip install
- have friends test pip install
- complete video
- Submit to Google
- social media share of PyPi repo
  - Matt Schumer
  - Logan K.
  - DeepMind folks
  - Book people

==== WATERLINE ====
  - readthedocs
